hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the 2015 15
inch retina MacBook Pro so it's a
refresh this year it's a bit of a spec
bump they've added a force touch
trackpad and they've changed the
manufacturer of the dedicated video card
so because it's not a major overhaul of
the system I'm not going to do one of my
regular reviews I just wanted to talk
about how this device fits into people's
lifestyle and whether or not it's for
you so it's been my go-to notebook for
the past year and a half and I want to
share my experiences with you and I also
want to discuss whether or not you
should get the dedicated video card or
not all right
let's do this in case you haven't seen
it before here is a 5 second unboxing
this is a box notebook inside
accessories underneath it's just
standard stuff when I first looked into
picking up one of the retina MacBooks
the form factor of the 13-inch was
really appealing the 15-inch is quite a
bit bigger and it's obviously more
expensive and if you're a student or
someone who brings their notebook around
a lot so you know different places each
day to use the 15-inch can be kind of
daunting and I really wanted to stay
away from it the other thing is that
when you hold the 13-inch in one hand
and like on one side it doesn't feel
like I'm putting stress on the notebook
casing it feels pretty balanced and you
can kind of sling it around like a
textbook but on the 15-inch because of
its extra weight and extra length it
feels like you're putting a bit of
pressure a bit of uncomfortable pressure
on the bottom casing now is concerned
about damaging it and just fragility
isn't something you want to deal with
for your daily driver but in the end I
went with the 15-inch and it's been
through some bumps and bangs and I've
even dropped it a couple times with no
issues so just from the perspective of
the size of the notebooks the 15-inch is
probably just as robust as the 13-inch
and I personally quickly got used to its
size and weight for the mid-2015 lineup
the 15-inch processor speeds have been
bumped up a bit drive speeds are faster
but the headliner features are the for
such trackpad and a new discreet
graphics card so let's take a look at
the drive speeds here the mid-2014
models on the left
and you can see that it's coming around
like six seven hundred read and write
and that's pretty fast and the mid-2015
versions on the right and you can see
that the read and write speeds are
around fifteen hundred so that's really
fast but I have an example here with
multiple layers of video to scrub
through and this is very dependent on
drive speeds on the 2014 MacBook with
the slower drive speeds you can see I'm
dropping frames but on the 2015 version
with faster drive speeds I'm still
dropping frames it's not because of the
drive speed though the processing just
can't keep up so it's nice to have
faster and faster drive speeds but
there's very few applications that can
really take advantage of something like
this on a notebook boot times are also
pretty similar the 2015 version is
slightly faster the force touch trackpad
is pretty solid I've been using it for a
while now and for a more comprehensive
look at it you can check out my 13-inch
retina macbook review I'll link that at
the top of the screen but the too long
didn't read is that it's a good feature
it's certainly not game-changing it's
nice to have but it's not worth
upgrading your notebook just for the
force touch trackpad it's not that cool
the more interesting change though is
the new discreet video card this year
it's an AMD M 370 X which can push out
5k resolution and is presumably a better
performer than last year's 750 M
now this monitor here is a true 4k
display and I've always had problems
connecting this to the mid 2014 MacBook
because it flickers sometimes and it
could only run it 50 Hertz but with the
2015 15 inch model it has no problems
and it pushes out four zero nine six by
2160 at 60 Hertz aside from these
changes though everything else is the
same the design is the same screen is
the same and unfortunately the ports are
the same no USB C port like the 12-inch
MacBook allright performance so this is
where I'm probably gonna spend the
majority of this video it's gonna be a
lot of graphs and numbers and just
generally boring stuff but honestly I
couldn't do a proper performance review
without graphs
apologize first up is gaming performance
so here are some frame rates of games
running natively in OS X and I'm going
to show some frame rates of games
running in bootcamp Windows 8.1 so if
you want to play top tier first-person
shooters or RPGs on a MacBook with good
frame rates you really wanted to squeak
card but the new m3 70 X is only
fractionally better than the older 750 M
depending on the game it's like a 10-15
percent improvement in frame rates and
in some games it's less than 5% it's
certainly not a big improvement so when
you kind of look only at gaming
benchmarks it doesn't make sense to
purchase the 2015 version over the 2014
because a used or refurbished mid 2014
is probably going to be around 15%
cheaper which is a way better value okay
let's look at some video editing stuff
more boring graphs so this time shorter
is better because we're measuring time
and you'll see that the performance gain
of the new AMD card is pretty dependent
on the application suite you work with I
mean if you're primarily working with
Adobe products at premier and After
Effects you can probably save yourself
money and just go for the base model you
don't even need a discrete graphics card
at all for Final Cut users there is a
noticeable improvement about 15 20 %
improvement over the 750 M but if you
use adobe like me or if you just use
your MacBook to play games it's probably
not worth upgrading to the 2015 if you
already have the 2014 the discrete video
card on the 2015 is a rebranding of an
older AMD chip that's been around since
I really wish Apple had put in like an
Nvidia n 60 M or even a 970 m in there
and if you've seen any of my other
notebook reviews those Mac slope chips
do great in games and video editing
Apple claims an increase in performance
of up to 80% and I mean I'm sure there's
some obscure feature or an application
out there that actually has an 80%
increase in performance but in general
it's around 15 to 20 percent from what
I've seen I noticed that battery life
was actually improved the one I did my
review on the 13-inch MacBook for 2015 I
couldn't really notice an improvement in
battery
from the 2014 model so I was kind of
expecting the same here but on the 15
inch it actually lasted measurably
longer I got about eight and a half
hours watching movies about eight hours
doing light work and around two and a
half hours playing games so these
numbers are all about 30 minutes longer
than last year's model which is kind of
nice I ran some benchmarks just to test
the noise levels and thermals for four
different MacBooks and for the thermals
I was expecting the m3 70 X to run a
little hot because it's based on older
architecture but they've done a good job
on this trip and it's barely warmer than
the machine with the iris Pro and here's
what they sound like
unlike the 13-inch MacBook the fan noise
is pretty similar between the base model
and one with discrete graphics it's a
little bit louder than the fans from the
2014 models but overall they're not bad
I've always felt that the 13-inch
MacBook Pros were reasonably priced I
mean they started 1,300 bucks
and you can get some good tech in an
incredibly well-built package but
there's a big drop in value going up to
the 15-inch it starts at $2,000 for the
base model and 2,500 for one with
discrete graphics I would only recommend
the 15-inch MacBook to people who either
really need or want that bigger screen
or people who can actually make use of
quad-core processing and in terms of
discrete graphics unless your games or
more realistically your applications can
really take advantage of discrete video
card I'd skip it the iris pro on the
base models are pretty good so the
15-inch MacBook Pro is a device that's
obviously not for everyone the base
model is expensive and once you upgrade
it it's very expensive but if you're
really intent on getting this I would
take a look at the 2014 edition because
it's significantly cheaper right now and
has very similar performance but that's
the end of the review I hope you guys
liked it and I hope it helped your
purchasing decisions but if you liked it
give me some thumbs if you didn't give
me some bad thumbs it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time